Your new rock is a very sensitive pet and may be slightly traumatized from all the handling and shipping required in bringing the two of you together.
While you may look in on your new pet from time to time, it is essential that you leave your rock in its box for a few days.
It is advised that you set the box in an area of your home that is to become your PET ROCK’s “special place’.
Some PET ROCK owners have found that the ticking of an alarm clock placed near the box has a soothing effect; especially at night.
It takes most PET ROCKS exactly three days to acclimate themselves to their new surroundings.
After seventy two hours have passed you may remove the rock from its box and begin enjoying your new pet.
If, when you remove the rock from its box it appears to be excited, place it on some old newspapers.
The rock will know what the paper is for and will require no further instruction.
It will remain on the paper until you remove it.
Your PET ROCK will be a devoted friend and companion for many years to come.
Rocks enjoy a rather long life span so the two of you will never have to part—at least not on your PET ROCK’s account.
Once you have transcended the awkward training stage your rock will mature into a faithful, obedient, loving pet with but one purpose in life—to be at your side when you want it to, and to go lie down when you don’t.
A PET ROCK is perfect for people who hate animals, are allergic to animals, or who are not allowed to keep animals.
When you own a PET ROCK you never have problems with leash law violations, you'll never have to clean up nasty messes, and your pet will never keep you and the neighbors awake at night.
PET ROCKS are welcome everywhere.
Your PET ROCK didn’t come out of any old rock pile, you know!
There is nothing common about genuine, pedigreed PET ROCKS.
They descend from a long line of famous rocks.
Their ancestors can be found amongst the rubble of the pyramids; the cobblestone streets of ancient European cities; the Great Wall of China.
PET ROCKS descend in one unbroken line that can be traced back to the beginning of time and even farther.
PET ROCKS are found with the aid of a specially-trained Rock Hound.
They are then examined for congenital defects prior to intelligence evaluations.
Only rocks that have demonstrated a strong capacity for learning and obedience are allowed to wear the name PET ROCK.
Upon passing initial tests they are prepared for shipping, packed into their little boxes, and sent throughout the world to anxious owners.
Your rock is an individual.
There are hundreds of breeds of rocks.
Of the hundreds of breeds of rocks known to man, only a few show the necessary aptitude required of a PET ROCK.
The more important traits associated with genuine PET ROCKS are gentle disposition, eagerness to please, and a profound sense of responsibility.
Nobody, but nobody likes a surly, misbehaving rock.
Therefore, it is most important that you begin training immediately.
Your PET ROCK should be made to know who is the boss, and that you will demand certain good manners and impeccable behavior if the two of you are to have a happy, well adjusted relationship.
Limit your training sessions to fifteen minutes, twice each day.
One half-hour session is not recommended as a rock’s attention span is rather short.
Remember; a bored rock is an unhappy rock.
The first section of this training manual will address itself to simple obedience—COME, SIT, STAY, etc.
Amusing tricks will be covered in Section Two.
No special equipment is required in training your new pet.
Amazingly, a rock is one of the few pets that will respond to training without the aid of leash or choke chain.
First, select a special training area.
Use the same area for all training sessions until your rock is showing good progress.
It is essential that your PET ROCK learn this command.
A rock that doesn’t come when it’s called will cause its owner endless embarrassment.
Command gently but firmly.
It is assumed that you have given your PET ROCK a name by now.
If you have not, do so before proceeding with obedience training.
To teach the command COME, place your rock on the floor or ground and take a few steps backward.
Next, bending over from the waist, place your hands upon your knees and face your rock.
Now, with firm authority, say, COME BRUTUS.
If you have not named your rock Brutus you may wish to say something else.
Repeat the command, COME BRUTUS.
Assuming your rock is normal it will probably not respond.
Bending over from the waist, face your rock, clap your hands, and let your face light up as you say, COME BRUTUS, C’MON FELLA, HERE BOY, and stuff like that.
Now, start walking slowly toward your rock.
Incredibly, as you walk toward your rock you will notice that it actually is coming closer.
This means your PET ROCK is learning the command, COME.
Praise your rock and give it a pat of approval.
A pat of approval works wonders.
Many PET ROCKS have tremendous difficulty learning the command, COME.
PET ROCK owners have complained that their rocks were stupid, dimwitted and slow because of it.
Well, this is ridiculous.
To be sure, training a rock to come when it’s called requires extraordinary patience.
It is a rare rock indeed that will leap into it’s master’s arms the first time it hears the command.
And, while it takes quite a while to train a rock to come when its name is called, the problem lies not in the rock’s inability to learn commands; the problem lies in the fact that a rock has an extremely hard time learning its name.
Be patient, calm and gentle.
The next command to teach your rock is STAY.
It is very important that your PET ROCK learn this command as it is disconcerting to have a rock that will wander around while you are shopping for groceries or having your hair done.
Return to your training area and set your rock upon the floor or ground.
Look at your rock intently, like you really mean business, and give the command, STAY.
Surprisingly, most rocks have no difficulty learning this command and respond quite obediently the first time they hear it.
Repeat the command, STAY, and slowly back away from your rock.
If your rock should move, and this is highly unlikely, shout the command while gesturing dramatically with the palm of your outstretched hand.
In no time at all your PET ROCK will be responding to this obedience command each and every time.
With further patience you can train your rock to STAY by using only the hand signal.
This is not a difficult command to teach a PET ROCK as most rocks spend the bulk of their time sitting around anyway.
However, a refresher course is certainly in order since you will want your rock to sit when you want it to, not when it wants to.
Place your rock in its training area and give the command, SIT.
Many rocks will attempt to deceive you by lying down, thinking that you won't know the difference.
This should not be encouraged!
If you say, SIT, then your rock should sit and that’s all there is to it.
Here is a simple method to ensure your PET ROCK always obeys your commands: Repeat the order, SIT, and slowly walk away from your rock.
Now, hide in another room and, from time to time, peek in on your rock to make sure it hasn’t moved.
If it lies down, when it should be sitting, storm into the room and shout, BAD ROCK, BAD ROCK!
Your PET ROCK will know it has displeased you and will return to the sitting position.
It will also know who’s the boss!
Once your PET ROCK learns the command, SIT, add the command, STAY.
Your rock will now remain sitting until further notice.
It would be cruel to leave your rock in the sitting position forever.
Therefore, it is necessary that you teach it the command, DOWN.
After sitting for a long period of time your rock will appreciate the chance to relax.
It is also nice, when you have house guests, to own a PET ROCK that will lie unobtrusively and lovingly, at your feet.
Teaching the command, DOWN, is best accomplished in conjunction with the command, SIT.
After your PET ROCK has been in the sitting position for a while, give it the command, DOWN.
If you’ve made a big fuss about your rock sitting properly it may be reluctant to move.
Place your foot upon your rock and push it firmly into the carpet or dirt.
It won’t take long before your rock understands what you want it to do.
DOWN is another of the training commands that most rocks respond to with a minimum of teaching.
It is in a PET ROCK’s nature that it learns to get down so easily.
Praise your rock and give it a gentle, reassuring hug.
You’re a little confused if you think a PET ROCK can be taught to STAND.
A rock has no feet.
It is extremely unusual to see a rock strolling around unaccompanied.
There’s a very good reason for this.
Most PET ROCK owners have had the patience and good judgment to teach the command, HEEL.
To teach your PET ROCK to HEEL, simply follow these easy steps.
First, place your PET ROCK on the floor or ground directly behind your right heel.
Next, give the command, HEEL, and stand absolutely still.
Slowly, without moving your feet, turn and look down at your rock.
You will be both pleased and amazed to see it is still there, right where you want it be, directly behind your right heel.
Your PET ROCK has learned the command.
Praise your rock.
Few pets are more anxious to please their masters than are PET ROCKS.
It is surprisingly easy to teach your rock cute tricks that will entertain you and your friends for hours.
Your PET ROCK will learn this trick the very first time you give it a lesson.
That statement may be hard to believe but it is, nevertheless, quite true.
The best place to teach your PET ROCK to ROLL OVER is on the side of a hill.
Place your rock on the ground at the top of a hill and give the command, ROLL OVER.
Now, let go of your rock.
It’s that simple!
Your rock will roll end-over-end and will not stop until it tires of the game.
PET ROCKS usually get tired of the game when they reach the bottom of the hill.
Follow your rock to the bottom of the hill and praise it profusely.
This praise will make your PET ROCK very happy and it will repeat the trick as soon as you return it to the top of the hill.
You will tire of this trick long before your PET ROCK does.
Your PET ROCK will take to this trick like a duck takes to water.
It is one of the most entertaining tricks a rock can learn, and a trick that is sure to get many affectionate laughs and approving glances from you and your friends.
Take your PET ROCK to its training area and, when you have its undivided attention, give the command, PLAY DEAD.
If your rock is like most rocks it will not have to be told more than once.
Immediately, it will go completely stiff as though rigor mortis has set in, and will remain in this posture until you give a different command.
Rocks enjoy this trick so much that often, when you’re not even looking, they'll actually practice it on their own.
It’s not unusual to walk into a room and see a PET ROCK playing dead.
You can’t teach a rock to shake hands.
PET ROCKS really enjoy the water, but, as nearly everyone knows, they are atrocious swimmers.
Therefore, teaching your rock to skip over the surface of the water is very important.
To do this, first find a narrow stream, pond, or swimming pool.
DO NOT ATTEMPT THIS TRICK ON A WIDE BODY OF WATER!
Hold your rock firmly in hand, give the command, SKIP, and throw your rock across the surface.
More often than not, and depending upon your arm, your PET ROCK will skip happily to the other side.
If your pet does not make it happily to the other side, it will sink like a stone.
If that happens, you'll be needing a new one.
To teach your PET ROCK to FETCH, throw a stick or a ball as far as you can.
Next, throw your PET ROCK as far as you can.
Rarely, if ever, will your PET ROCK return with the object, but that’s the way it goes.
A rock is a loyal, devoted pet that can easily be trained to protect you and your family.
Woe be to the burglar or prowler who ventures into the home guarded by a PET ROCK—or the mugger who attempts to accost a PET ROCK’s master.
In those instances when your adversary is at a distance (such as when a bully kicks sand in your face on the beach and keeps on running), your PET ROCK will respond to the challenge instantly and effectively in assuring that it never happens again.
First, wipe the sand from your eyes.
Next, pick-up your PET ROCK.
Shout the command, ATTACK!, and throw your rock at the bully with all your might.
This method of protection is sure-fire and results are guaranteed, although you may want to practice your aim before attempting this maneuver.
If you are threatened at close range always use the Close Range Attack Method; it is the ultimate form of personal protection.
The element of surprise enters into this attack method, thereby making it doubly effective.
Owners of Attack Trained PET ROCKS have a responsibility to society to use their dangerous pets for protection only, and not for instigating trouble of any kind.
A healthy rock is a happy rock, everybody knows that!
It is, therefore, extremely important that you learn health care and emergency first aid techniques as they regard your PET ROCK.
PET ROCKS are, to be sure, quite hardy.
However, an occasional accident or disease may befall your pet and you should know how to care for it.
Also, visits to the lapidary can be very expensive.
Here are some of the more serious problems that can befall a PET ROCK, along with instructions for their cures.
A chip off the old rock can be much more serious than a chip off the young rock.
In the first place, old rocks don’t heal as quickly and first aid should be immediate.
Should you notice a chip off your old rock the first thing you must do is find the missing chip.
Your pet’s own chip must be found and glued back in place.
Any attempt to use a strange chip will cause a rejection of the new part and then where would you be?
If you are getting blood out of your rock you should contact the Internal Revenue Service immediately.
They’ve been attempting to do this very thing for years.
If your PET ROCK appears nervous and fidgety, it’s a better than even chance it’s suffering from dreaded Rock Bottom.
No other disease is as debilitating to PET ROCKS as Rock Bottom.
The first symptoms are manifested in an almost unbelievable forgetfulness.
Your PET ROCK will not remember a single command or trick.
All the hours of training will be forgotten.
From simple loss of memory it gets worse.
So bad in fact, that we won’t go into it here.
Suffice to say that, should your PET ROCK contract Rock Bottom, get a new PET ROCK immediately.
There is no known cure.
Perhaps you have seen a particular rock in the wild and thought it would make a nice pet.
DO NOT APPROACH THAT ROCK!
This is to be discouraged.
Wild rocks can give you nothing but headaches.
They can be surly, vicious, and unpredictable.
They are nearly impossible to domesticate and show practically no learning abilities whatsoever.
There’s an old saying in rock circles, “Once a wild rock, always a wild rock.”
A genuine, pedigreed PET ROCK will make a much more suitable companion.
As the owner of a PET ROCK you have assumed a responsibility to love and care for this new addition to your family.
If your rock should misbehave, be patient.
If it should cause you problems, be forgiving.
Under no circumstances should you turn your PET ROCK loose.
The world is already overcrowded with discarded, unwanted rocks, and millions must be destroyed each year.
These poor, unfortunate rocks meet brutal ends in roadbeds, cement mixers, or as land fill.
Don’t allow your PET ROCK to meet an untimely demise at the bottom of an obscure pile of rubble.
Remember; if you take care of your PET ROCK, your PET ROCK will take care of you.